The President:
Hi, everybody.
Over the last few years,
Democrats and Republicans have
come together and cut
our deficit by more than
$2.5 trillion through a balanced
mix of spending cuts and higher
tax rates for the
wealthiest Americans.
That's more than halfway towards
the $4 trillion in deficit
reductions that economists and
elected officials from both
parties say we need
to stabilize our debt.
I believe we can finish the job
the same way we started it --
with a balanced mix of
more spending cuts and more
tax reform.
And the overwhelming majority
of the American people agree --
both Democrats and Republicans.
Now, my preference -- and the
preference of many Members of
Congress -- is to do that in
a balanced, comprehensive way,
by making sensible changes
to entitlement programs and
reforming our tax code.
As we speak, both the House
and Senate are working towards
budget proposals that I hope
will lay out this kind of
balanced path going forward.
But the budget
process takes time.
And right now, if Congress
doesn't act by March 1st,
a series of harmful, automatic
cuts to job-creating investments
and defense spending -- also
known as the sequester --
are scheduled to take effect.
And the result could be a huge
blow to middle-class families
and our economy as a whole.
If the sequester is
allowed to go forward,
thousands of Americans who
work in fields like national
security, education or
clean energy are likely to
be laid off.
Firefighters and food inspectors
could also find themselves out
of work -- leaving our
communities vulnerable.
Programs like Head
Start would be cut,
and lifesaving research into
diseases like cancer and
Alzheimer's could
be scaled back.
Small businesses could be
prevented from getting the
resources and support they
need to keep their doors open.
People with disabilities who are
waiting for their benefits could
be forced to wait even longer.
All our economic progress
could be put at risk.
And then there's the impact
on our military readiness.
Already, the threat of deep cuts
has forced the Navy to delay an
aircraft carrier that was
supposed to deploy to the
Persian Gulf.
As our military leaders
have made clear,
changes like this affect our
ability to respond to threats in
an unstable part of the world.
And we'll be forced to make
even more tough decisions in the
weeks ahead if
Congress fails to act.
The good news is,
there's another option.
Two months ago, we faced
a similar deadline,
and instead of making deep,
indiscriminate cuts that would
have cost jobs and
slowed down our recovery,
Democrats and Republicans came
together and made responsible
cuts and manageable changes to
our tax code that will bring
down our deficit.
This time, Congress should pass
a similar set of balanced cuts
and close more tax loopholes
until they can find a way to
replace the sequester with a
smarter, longer-term solution.
Right now, most
Members of Congress --
including many Republicans --
don't think it's a good idea to
put thousands of jobs at risk
and do unnecessary damage to
our economy.
And yet the current Republican
plan puts the burden of avoiding
those cuts mainly on seniors
and middle-class families.
They'd rather ask more from the
vast majority of Americans and
put our recovery at risk than
close even a single tax loophole
that benefits the wealthy.
Over the last few years, we've
made good progress towards
reducing our deficit
in a balanced way.
There's no reason we can't keep
chipping away at this problem.
And there's certainly no reason
that middle-class families and
small businesses should suffer
just because Washington couldn't
come together and eliminate
a few special interest tax
loopholes, or government
programs that just don't work.
At a time when economists and
business leaders from across the
spectrum have said that our
economy is poised for progress,
we shouldn't allow
self-inflicted wounds to put
that progress in jeopardy.
So my message to
Congress is this:
Let's keep working together
to solve this problem.
And let's give our workers and
our businesses the support they
need to grow and to thrive.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.